# infytq_FinalRound2k21April_Java
This repository consists of solutions for infyTQ Final Round Programming Questions for java language!

# Problem Statement 1:
Question: input is a non-empty string. output is a hashcode generated by following:
1. For every vowel in input string, multiply the index by 5. add non-zero positive odd integers from 1 to sum.
and if oddsum is not a single digit then keep adding every digits of oddsum to get new oddsum having single digit,
then replace vowel at index with oddsum.  
2. If there are no vowels in input string return -1;

```
Example:

sample input : program

sample output: pr7gr7m
```

Exaplaination:
1. 'o' is first vowel in input string. index is 2.
    So sum = 2*5 = 10. now oddsum = 1+3+5+7+9=25.
    oddsum is not single digit number,so
    oddsum = 2+5 = 7. now oddsum is single digit number.
    replace 'o' with oddsum.
   
   now string will look like: pr7gram
   
2. 'a' is second vowel in input string. index is 5.
    So sum = 5*5 = 25. now oddsum = 1+3+5+...+23+25=169.
    oddsum is not single digit number,so
    oddsum = 1+6+9 = 16; again oddsum = 1+6 = 7. now oddsum is single digit number.
    replace 'a' with oddsum.
    
    now string will look like: pr7gr7m  
    (there are no more vowels so this is final output hashcode!)  
    Final output: `pr7gr7m`
    
# Problem Statement 2:
Question: input will be mxn inmatrix of integers, and output is outmatrix.  
first line of input consist of number of rows (m).  
following m lines will have each n number of items.  

special sparse matrix is matrix having number of zero elements greater of equal to number of non-zero elements.

If inmatrix is not sparse matrix return -1.  

Else convert inmatrix to non-sparse matrix and display its elements having space between each elements in row  
Condition for converting:  
1. if the sum of elements in particular row (rowsum) is less than of equal to sum of elements in particular column (colsum)  
   then add a non-zero positive integer,num to rowsum such that num+rowsum is divisible by 2.  
2. if the sum of elements in particular row (rowsum) is greater than sum of elements in particular column (colsum)  
   then add a non-zero positive integer,num to rowsum such that num+rowsum is divisible by 3.

```
Example:

sample input:
4
0 0 5
6 0 0
1 9 0
0 0 0

sample output:
1 2 5
6 2 0
1 9 0
0 0 0
```

Explaination:
1. replacing 0 at (0,0). rowsum is 5 and colsum is 7.  
   rowsum is < colsum, so add 1(num) in rowsum such that rowsum+num=5+1 = 6 divisible by 2.  
   now matrix is:  
   1 0 5  
   6 0 0  
   1 9 0  
   0 0 0  
   
2. replacing 0 at (0,1). rowsum is 6 and colsum is 9.  
   rowsum is < colsum, so add 2(num) in rowsum such that rowsum+num=6+2 = 8 divisible by 2.  
   now matrix is:  
   1 2 5  
   6 0 0  
   1 9 0  
   0 0 0  
   
3. replacing 0 at (1,1). rowsum is 6 and colsum is 11.  
   rowsum is < colsum, so add 2(num) in rowsum such that rowsum+num=6+2 = 8 divisible by 2.  
   now matrix is:  
   1 2 5  
   6 2 0  
   1 9 0  
   0 0 0  
   
   (Now we have non-sparse matrix, so this is final answer)
